---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 - Continuing my Code"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

The third day of my project was meant to complete my count_dealer function and incorporate it into the larger body of
my blackjack function. This function was trickier than user_count function becaues it had to simulate the dealer's decision
process, especially in choosing if the Ace should count as 1 or 11.

### What I Actually Did

I spent time trying to set up the conditional statements for the count_dealer function. I realized that, compared to my
user_count function, I would have to approach the question of Ace very differently. For example, if the original hand
is A and 5, the dealer decides to hit and gets a 10, the function has to evaluate the Ace as a 1 instead of an 11 (since
it goes over 21). For this I relied on the typical rules that dealers will hit if the value is 16 or below and stand
if it is 17 or above. If the total with Ace as 1 or 11 is 16 or less, the functoin would return the lowest option
If the total with Ace as 11 is greater than 16, the function returns highest option. In this way I was able to create
a usable count_dealer function.

### What I Learned or Noticed

I noticed that the Ace always had to be at the end of the hand for it to be evaluated correctly. If the Ace was not
the last card, the value of the cards after it might alter if the Ace should be 1 or 11. To solve this I added a
section of code before my conditional statements that identified if there was an Ace in the hand, and added it to the
end of the code if it was.

### What's Next

After combining user_count and dealer_count into the main blackjack function, I saw that they worked effectively together.
The only flaw was that when revealing the dealer's cards at the end of a round, the Ace was always placed at the end
even if it was not dealt at the end. My next step will consist of fixing this error and finalizing the print and conditional
statements so the user can have a smooth and realistic experience with the game.
