---
layout: post
title: "Day 2 - Getting Going"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

The second day of my project, I set out to expand on the groundwork I had laid in Day 1 and 
dive deeper into the complexities of the Blackjack game. My main goal is to set up separate user_count
and a dealer_count functions that evaluate the total of the cards each time they are added to
the user's hand or the dealer's hand.

### What I Actually Did

I started out with the user_count function. The structure of the function was fairly straightforward.
I ran a for loop to iterate through the list representing the user's hand, indexing the first item
and using conditional statements to see if it belonged to one of three categories: 1) simple integers.
I just converted the string to an integer and added it to a counter. 2) if the card was a T, J, Q, or K.
I used list membership to check for it and then added +10 to the counter. 3) If the card was an Ace.
In this case, I asked user input to see if they wanted the Ace to count for 1 or 11. In this way I was able
to complete the user_count functions. However this proved much more difficult for the dealer_count function.
I was not able to come up with a way to systematically decide whether the Ace should count for 1 or 11,
since there is no user choice when the dealer's hand is being counted. I left this function to be worked on later.

### What I Learned or Noticed

I noticed that the order in which information is displayed is very important to the setup of the game.
I wanted the information available to the user to be as similar to the actual experience of playing
Blackjack, and have the same sequence. For example, if the user busts (reaches over 21 in value),
I did not want the rest of the game to be played and all subsequent information to be revealed.
This required the use of return functions and ordered print statements structure through conditional
statements. This was an application of abstraction and a practice in replicating real-life processes
as closely as possible.

### What's Next

My next biggest focus is to modify the dealer_count function. I need to decide how I will continunously
evaluate the dealer count as a dealer would in real life. The biggest challenge to this is deciding when
the Aces should count for 1 or 11. 
