---
layout: post
title: "Day 4 - Wrapping up Python"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

My Day 4 was meant to wrap up a working Python code for Blackjack. I needed to fix an error with the display of
the dealer's cards, where the Ace was always displayed at the end. I needed to place everything together through
conditional statements and print statements so the game can flow smoothly. Any remaining time was going to go for
debugging, and starting to translate the code into Ruby.

---

### What I Actually Did

I finalized the last part of the code through conditional statements. I had various comparison statements to see
if either count had gone over 21, or which count was greater. The statements would reveal information accordingly,
such as the dealer's hole card, their count, and the rest of the hand. It would return 'You win!' or 'Dealer wins!'
in the end. Then I ran it several times to make sure there were no errors. I was not able to begin coding it into
Ruby.
---

### What I Learned or Noticed

I learned that it was not possible to break up my code into any more sub-functions. I found the main body of my code
quite long, so I tried to break it up into smaller functions that would handle different sections. This was an issue
because of dealing the deck. I needed portions of the deck to be added to both the user's hand and the dealer's hand,
so it was easier if they remained in the same function. Although my code was long in the end, it was functional.

### What's Next

For the rest of the project I will work as much as I can to learn the syntax of Ruby and translate my code.
To do this, I will use information from different websites, and ask for help from AI sources if I really get stuck.
Although my reach goal is to translate the whole code, I will only go as far as reasonable.
