---
layout: post
title: "Day 5 - Ruby and Reevaluating"
---

### What I Set Out to Do

On my last day, my plan was to work as far as I could translating my code into Ruby. I chose Ruby since it seemed
the easiest language similar to Python. I thought it would be equally as difficult as the first half of my project.

### What I Actually Did

I realized very quickly that I had overestimated how easy it was to translate Python into Ruby. I had trouble
even beginning to code; I had to look up if Google Colab could code in Ruby, install Ruby, and then go from there.
The first thing I wanted it to do was create a deck. I began by searching up the basic formatting using websites like
https://try.ruby-lang.org/playground/. I would modify my section of code in my finished Blackjack notebook to fit
the formatting, but I still encountered several errors. I asked AI for help fine-tuning my code. I repeated this
process to have a function that printed the rules of the game. I did not get far enough to begin the count_dealer
or count_user functions, since those required arguments for the function and was tricker to understand. If I have
more time those will be the functions I'll look at.

### What I Learned or Noticed

I learned a lot about the basics of the differences between Ruby and Python. I went into this part of my project
unguided, so I'm still not sure if the way I am programming is the correct way to approach Ruby. However I thought
it was interesting that the code for Ruby had to be written in quotations, like a sort of docstring in Python.
It is only later on that this section of code is called. There was a greater emphasis on the file type, which I was
not used to compared to python. Although I've only been able to successfuly create independent functions (since 
create_deck doesn't rely on arguments or calls other functions, and printing the rules was only a series of print
statements) I have learned a lot about what aspects of the coding process Python prefers over Ruby, and vice versa.

### What's Next

For the remaining time I have, I will keep trying to translate sections of my code into ruby. Even if the entire
functions do not work, I'll still try to understand more about Ruby syntax and formatting.
